# 0.12 — Configuring your compiler: Choosing a language standard

### Code names for in-progress language standards

- Finalized language standards are named after the years in which they are finalized (e.g. C++17 was finalized in 2017).
	- However, when a new language standard is being agreed upon, it’s not clear in what year the finalization will take place. Consequently, in-progress language standards are given code names, which are then replaced by the actual names upon finalization of the standard.

- Here’s a mapping of code names to the final names:
	- c++1x = C++11
	- c++1y = C++14
	- c++1z = C++17
	- c++2a = C++20
	- c++2b = C++23


### Which language standard should you choose?
- In professional environments, it’s common to choose a language standard that is one or two versions back from the latest standard (e.g. now that C++20 is out, that means C++14 or C++17). 
	- This is typically done to ensure the compiler makers have had a chance to resolve defects, and so that best practices for new features are well understood. 
	- Where relevant, this also helps ensure better cross-platform compatibility, as compilers on some platforms may not provide full support for newer language standards immediately.

### Exporting your configuration

- Having to reselect all of your settings options every time you create a new project is burdensome. 
	- Fortunately, most IDEs provide a way to export your settings. This is typically done by creating a new project template with the settings you want, and then selecting that project template when you create a new project.