# # 0.2 — Introduction to programming languages


### Machine Language

A computer’s CPU is incapable of speaking C++. The limited set of instructions that a CPU can understand directly is called machine code (or machine language or an instruction set).

- Here is a sample machine language instruction: `10110000 01100001`
- Each individual 0 or 1 is called a binary digit, or bit for short.
- The number of bits that make up a single command vary -- for example, some CPUs process instructions that are always 32 bits long, whereas some other CPUs (such as the x86 family, which you are likely using) have instructions that can be a variable length.


### Assembly Language

Because machine language is so hard for humans to read and understand, assembly language was invented. In an assembly language, each instruction is identified by a short abbreviation (rather than a set of bits), and names and other numbers can be used.

Here is the same instruction as above in assembly language: `mov al, 061h`


- This makes assembly much easier to read and write than machine language. However, the CPU can not understand assembly language directly. 
- Instead, the assembly program must be translated into machine language before it can be executed by the computer. This is done by using a program called an **assembler**.
- Programs written in assembly languages tend to be very fast, and assembly is still used today when speed is critical.

However, assembly still has some downsides:
1. Assembly languages still require a lot of instructions to do even simple tasks
2. Assembly language still isn't very portable
	- A program written in assembly for one CPU will not likely work on hardware that uses a different instruction set

### High-level Languages

To address the readability and portability concerns, new programming languages such as C, C++, Pascal (and later, languages such as Java, Javascript, and Perl) were developed. These languages are called high level languages, as they are designed to allow the programmer to write programs without having to be as concerned about what kind of computer the program will be run on.

Here is the same instruction as above in C/C++: `a = 97;`


High-level languages must be translated into a format the computer can understand before they can be run, there are 2 ways this is done:
	- Compiling
	- Interpreting

A **compiler** is a program that reads source code and produces a stand-alone executable program that can then be run. 
	- Once your code has been turned into an executable, you do not need the compiler to run the program. 
	- In the beginning, compilers were primitive and produced slow, unoptimized code. However, over the years, compilers have become very good at producing fast, optimized code, and in some cases can do a better job than humans can in assembly language!

An **interpreter** is a program that directly executes the instructions in the source code without requiring them to be compiled into an executable first. Interpreters tend to be more flexible than compilers, but are less efficient when running programs because the interpreting process needs to be done every time the program is run. This means the interpreter is needed every time the program is run.

Most languages can be compiled or interpreted, however, traditionally languages like C, C++, and Pascal are compiled, whereas “scripting” languages like Perl and Javascript tend to be interpreted. Some languages, like Java, use a mix of the two.