# 0.3 — Introduction to C and C++


### C++
- Developed by Bjarne Stroustrup at Bell Labs as an extension to C, starting in 1979. C++ adds many new features to the C language, and is perhaps best thought of as a superset of C, though this is not strictly true (as C99 introduced a few features that do not exist in C++). C++’s claim to fame results primarily from the fact that it is an object-oriented language.

### C and C++’s philosophy

The underlying design philosophy of C and C++ can be summed up as “trust the programmer” -- which is both wonderful and dangerous. 
	- C++ is designed to allow the programmer a high degree of freedom to do what they want. 
		- However, this also means the language often won’t stop you from doing things that don’t make sense, because it will assume you’re doing so for some reason it doesn’t understand. 
	- There are quite a few pitfalls that new programmers are likely to fall into if caught unaware. This is one of the primary reasons why knowing what you shouldn’t do in C/C++ is almost as important as knowing what you should do.



### What is C++ good at?

C++ excels in situations where high performance and precise control over memory and other resources is needed. Here are a few common types of applications that most likely would be written in C++:

-   Video games
-   Real-time systems (e.g. for transportation, manufacturing, etc…)
-   High-performance financial applications (e.g. high frequency trading)
-   Graphical applications and simulations
-   Productivity / office applications
-   Embedded software
-   Audio and video processing
-   Artificial intelligence and neural networks