# 0.7 — Compiling your first program

### Projects

- To write a C++ program inside an IDE, we typically start by creating a new project (we’ll show you how to do this in a bit). 
- A project is a container that holds all of your source code files, images, data files, etc… that are needed to produce an executable (or library, website, etc…) that you can run or use. 
	- The project also saves various IDE, compiler, and linker settings, as well as remembering where you left off, so that when you reopen the project later, the state of the IDE can be restored to wherever you left off.
	- When you choose to compile your program, all of the .cpp files in the project will get compiled and linked.
- Each project corresponds to one program.
	- When you’re ready to create a second program, you’ll either need to create a new project, or overwrite the code in an existing project (if you don’t want to keep it). 
	- Project files are generally IDE specific, so a project created for one IDE will need to be recreated in a different IDE.


### Workspaces / solutions

- When you create a new project for your program, many IDEs will automatically add your project to a “workspace” or a “solution” (the term varies by IDE). 
	- A workspace or solution is a container that can hold one or more related projects. For example, if you were writing a game and wanted to have a separate executable for single player and multiplayer, you’d need to create two projects.


### Precompiled headers
- A way to make compiling a bit faster, but also requires more work