# 1.1 — Statements and the structure of a program

### Statements
A computer program is a sequence of instructions that tell the computer what to do.
- A statement is a type of instruction that causes the program to _perform some action_.
	- Smallest independent unit of computation in the C++ language
	- Most (but not all) statements in C++ end in a semicolon
	- In a high-level language such as C++, a single statement may compile into many machine language instructions.


### Functions and the main function

- In C++, statements are typically grouped into units called functions. 
- A function is a collection of statements that executes sequentially (in order, from top to bottom).
- **Rule**
		- Every C++ program must have a special function named main (all lower case letters). 
			- When the program is run, the statements inside of _main_ are executed in sequential order.
				- This is probably why this practice is also followed in Python and other languages


### Dissecting Hello World!
```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
   std::cout << "Hello world!";
   return 0;
}
```

1. **Line 1** is a special type of line called a preproccesor directive
	- This indicates that we would like to use the contents of the iostream library
		-  We need this line in order to use std::cout later
		- I'm assuming iostream is part of the standard C++ library and cout is a method within it
2. **Line 3** tells the compiler that we're going to write a function called main()
	- Again, every C++ program needs a main() or it will fail to link
3. **Lines 4 and 7** indicate where the function code is contained
4. **Line 5** is the first statement within main()
	- std::cout apparently stands for "character output"
	- The  `<<` operator allows us to send letters or numbers to the console output
5. **Line 6** is a return statement
	- Useful for indicating whether a function ran successfully or not
		- In this case that's why we are returning 0