# 1.4 — Variable assignment and initialization

### Copy initialization

- When an initializer is provided after an equals sign, this is called copy initialization. Copy initialization was inherited from the C language.

```cpp
int width = 5; // copy initialization of value 5 into variable width
```

- For simple types like int, copy initialization is efficient. However, when types get more complex, copy initialization can be inefficient.


### Direct initialization

When an initializer is provided inside parenthesis, this is called direct initialization.

```cpp
int width( 5 ); // direct initialization of value 5 into variable width
```

- For simple data types (like int), copy and direct initialization are essentially the same. For more complicated types, direct initialization tends to be more efficient than copy initialization.

### Brace initialization

- Unfortunately, direct initialization can’t be used for all types of initialization (such as initializing an object with a list of data). 
	- To provide a more consistent initialization mechanism, there’s brace initialization (also called uniform initialization or list initialization) that uses curly braces.

Brace initialization comes in three forms:

```cpp
int width { 5 }; // direct brace initialization of value 5 into variable width (preferred)
int height = { 6 }; // copy brace initialization of value 6 into variable height
int depth {}; // value initialization (see next section)
```

- Direct and copy brace initialization function almost identically, but the direct form is generally preferred.

- Brace initialization has the added benefit of disallowing “narrowing” conversions. 
	- This means that if you try to use brace initialization to initialize a variable with a value it can not safely hold, the compiler will throw a warning or an error. 
	- For example:

```cpp
int width { 4.5 }; // error: not all double values fit into an int
```


### Best practice
Favor initialization using braces whenever possible.